A. short description of the project, to give the context.

The project we were tasked with was the environmental testing scheduler for Halliburton. Our objective for this project was to construct an application that provides scheduling, real-time monitoring, reporting and auditing capabilities for environmental testing systems. This was to be done using a MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular 7 and Node.js) stack and was to be delivered completely dockerized. The project was split into two teams, consisting of front end development and back end development, where each team had its own separate communication channels and Trello board for backlog management. Then, both teams would meet together regularly and discuss challenges and ideas during each sprint.


B. Details of challenges faced, how they were resolved or not resolved, any workarounds. 

The first challenges we faced was that of the size and capability of our group, as well as conflicts between group members. This began with our group not being able to get a graduate student and their experience, as well as losing our 8th group member. The second challenge we faced was most of the group had little to no experience working with any of the technologies or libraries that were required in this project so much of the project was a mixture of trial and error and learning on the fly. Some of these specific issues was learning how to set up and connect an LDAP server to our front end login system, writing unit tests for subscribed services within the front end, Jenkins needing to be changed to headless chrome after days of failing to test our code, and our MongoDB server inexplicably creating thousands of instances of logins which essentially caused a denial of service against ourselves in which our backend would not run correctly. Luckily, all of these problems were solved through persistence and hours of troubleshooting. Another issue was the rather late appearance of our sponsor and the continuous updates to specifications and a difference in opinion in what the team thought were important features and what the sponsor thought should be prioritized.

C. Anything else interesting/significant the team likes to report, lessons learned, etc. 

As a team who had its share of internal and external issues within the group as well as the project, we were able to all contribute a fair share amount of work, and come above and beyond our own personal expectations of our personal abilities. Each person was able to work on both the front end and the back end of the project when it was needed, and was able to learn certain sets of skills they had not previously possessed. The lessons we had learned was to try to start and finish the core parts of a sprint earlier, as well as try to have more communication with the client. A lot of technologies we hadn’t used before were utilized giving us a broader amount of knowledge for our career. Overall, our team learned how to work on a project together and navigate difficult situations that sometimes arise when working on a larger project. We definitely improved our time management skills so that we could complete tasks assigned to us on time as well.
